---
layout: page
title:  "Practice Problems for 2nd Mid-term"
permalink: "/lectures/practice_problems_2nd"
---

The answers to these are on Moodle (or will be by 5pm on Friday April 3.)

Practice problems in chapter 5:
* Make sure you understand the solutions of the problems on HW5.
* Problem 5.15 Ampere's law practice
* Problem 5.16 Ampere's law practice (Did you already do this for homework? Maybe I'm thinking
of 6.16, which you did do.)
* Problem 5.17 Ampere's law practice
* Problem 5.51  Good practice with Biot-Savart Law, also just fun (cause it's a spiral)
* Problem 5.60  Good practice with Dipole moments and vector potential. (d) and (e) are good practice integrating

Practice problems in chapter 6:
* Problem 6.17  Bound currents
* Problem 6.23  I almost gave you this one as homework.  It's about a magnetic toy.
* Problem 6.25  Underlines the correspondence between electric and magnetic fields.

Practice problems in chapter 7:
* Make sure you understand the solutions of the problems on HW6.
* Problem 7.47  This is actually the mechanism by which pulsars rip electrons off of the surface - by the emf generated by the spinning magnetic field.  It's also good practice in calculating emfs.
* Problem 7.53  Nice practice in Lens' law.  I thought about putting it on the exam, but it takes too long to figure out what is actually going on.  After you figure out what's going on, it's a short problem.
* Problem 7.54  Use Lens' law then Faraday's law.

Practice problems in chapter 9:
* Make sure you understand the solutions of the problems on HW7, particularly #4.  My exam
problem can't be that intricate, but I plan on having a problem where you match boundary
conditions for a wave incident on a surface.
* Problem 9.9   Practice writing down electric and magnetic fields for waves in various directions with various polarizations.
* Problem 9.15  Prove to yourself that the reflected and transmitted waves have same polarization as incident wave, something we have just tacitly assumed.
* Problem 9.16  Prove to yourself that that thing we did where we set all the exponents equal to each other is valid.
